# Default elasticsearch messages
# You can specialize this file for each language.
# For exemple, for french create a messages.fr file

#elasticsearch.name=elasticsearch
elasticsearch.title=Elastic Search for %s
elasticsearch.home=Home
elasticsearch.blank=New
elasticsearch.index.title=Choose the object to edit
elasticsearch.index.objectType=Search
elasticsearch.index.action=
elasticsearch.index.add=Add
elasticsearch.add=Add &{%s}
elasticsearch.search.title=&{%s}
elasticsearch.search.size=%d &{%s}
elasticsearch.search.totalSize=%d total
elasticsearch.pagination.previous=¬´ Previous
elasticsearch.pagination.next=Next ¬ª
elasticsearch.pagination.last=Last ¬ª¬ª
elasticsearch.pagination.first=¬´¬´ First
elasticsearch.show.title=Edit &{%s}
elasticsearch.save=Save
elasticsearch.saveAndContinue=Save and continue editing
elasticsearch.cancel=Cancel
elasticsearch.hasErrors=Please correct errors
elasticsearch.blank.title=Add &{%s}
elasticsearch.saveAndAddAnother=Save and create another
elasticsearch.delete=Delete &{%s}
elasticsearch.created=The &{%s} has been created
elasticsearch.saved=The &{%s} has been saved
elasticsearch.deleted=The &{%s} has been deleted
elasticsearch.delete.error=Cannot delete this object
elasticsearch.search=Search
elasticsearch.none=(None)
elasticsearch.selectValue=(Please select a value)